
I've been following the mindset of speedrunning learning over the past year. As I have found experience to be the best teacher and failure the best kind of lesson one can get, I have ended up speedrunning failure. It is unclear to me whether this is the best path in life - when I tell people they should speedrun failure, they look at me like I'm crazy and ask, "Why not speedrun success?" There is no question about the end goal being success, but unless one hopes to get there by sheer luck, a strong foundation of understanding of the path there is needed. The protocol for speedrunning failure I followed can be outlined as such: 
  1. Outline the end goal
  2. Break it down into tangible steps that can be executed in a manic-like fashion 
  3. Sprint on execution, forgetting that the world exists 
  4. Once breaking failures are encountered, take a step back to a place of clarity 
  5. Reflect on how the set goal can be achieved given the reflections and analysis and go back to step 2.

There might be a better process whereby speedrunning success, one can move faster, or instead of speedrunning, one might want to maintain a steady and mindful pace which outpaces everything due to consistency, fortitude and patience. But this is not what I've done this year, so the lessons I've learned in 2025 from speedrunning failure are the following:

(I grouped them by categories for clarity)

# Lessons and Epiphanies from 2025
## Entrepreneurship 
**Have a baseline of stability and health - Best founders are boring.** One of the first things that broke and kept breaking as I kept sprinting was my foundation of health and sanity one needs in order to consistently work 100-hour work weeks at a highly stressful position. It is easy to think that some founders simply manage to jump from one crazy event to another, work 100 hours a week, maintain good family relations, write a blog, run a side hustle, give talks, write books, go on dates and fun trips, run marathons, and go to parties multiple times a week to network. Some founders infact do multiple things at once, but their mind is always unquestionably in one place only - their work. FOMO is a strong motivator, but I don't think it leads to progress or happiness. The best founders I've met put their own state as the number one priority - making sure that they are happy and well rested - and their work as the number two priority. *Everything else is a strong anti-priority*. Some founders find happiness in running, writing, having a family, or socializing in the evenings, alongside their main occupation, but the ordering of priorities and the mindset of putting personal happiness and health is clear. Losing yourself in your work is only healthy and possible when you are in a position to take on the stress and the bumps associated with being in the driver's seat, otherwise you're doing the equivalent of signing up for a polar bear plunge because of FOMO not because you actually want to do it. 
- **The co-founder and the team are the most important parts of the company equation.**  Incubators rarely work as they force you to make a decision that is *more important than marriage* in a matter of weeks. Building the early team is predominantly rooted in trust, which takes time to build. From my experience, it is likely better to found with someone who you trust more but looks worse on paper than someone who you trust less but seems like a better option on paper. The people you go into business with are going to shape the future of your life to an extent that is hard to comprehend. I find it helpful to grok this by immagining myself getting married to this person, and knowing that I am going to spend upwards of 10 hours a day, every day, for foreseeable years with them. This is a person you should be excited to see in the morning, excited to see grow and you should genuinely care about them. If it is not, don't get married. Also, if they don't feel that way about you, don't get married either! 
- **Product ("the idea") is a direction.** Being too set in an idea will kill the company, being too flexible with what you are offering will also kill the company. The only way to know where the balance is is to know the customer better than anyone else. It's easy to forget that a company is not a real *thing*. It's a group of people performing some actions for another group of people. You only make money if the group of people you are providing with goods or services is happy enough to exchange money for it. If you start with a hunch of "This person A might want X," your job is to see if that is true and how much they want it. If they don't want X, maybe they want X_1 or X_2, but at the end of the day you are concerned (ideally obsessed) with what person A might want. 
- **Market is make or break.** I found the market of the idea to be one of the most neglected factors by founders; perhaps it's not intuitive to think about, but choosing whose preferences you are going to obsess over is the most important decision when starting a company. The idea will change; changing the market, while possible, is extremely costly. 
- **Success is random.** You can't win the lottery if you don't play, and the more you play the more likely you are to win, but the odds remain low. A great analogy I found regarding the randomness of success—and anyone who claims to have found the key to it—is like telling, in detail, how one won the lottery: "make sure to pick the numbers 33, 42, and 87". As you keep learning, building the network you can eventially force the outcome you desire, but the path of long and hard, if you are chasing a unicorn within years, you should take a course in probability theory first. 
- **Raising VC money**. VCs give money mostly based on FOMO as they don't have enough time, or evidence, to make a proper decision. There is little virtue in this game, and while it's easier than one might think to raise larger sums of money, it's still a full-time effort. The game of raising has little virtue and is predominantly driven by ego. I found there to be almost a perfectly linear correlation between how full of themselves someone is and how good they are at raising money. A lot of money is thrown around for projects or ideas that would make you want to carve your own eyes out when you see them, but that only points to my previous point. If you want to see some of this madness yourself, look up any investments larger than $1M in crypto startups. With that said, the better your business, the easier time you are going to have raising money; the less you need the money, the easier it is going to be for you to raise. VCs play a very important role in the economy, but the way the industry is structured can bring one to a state of disbelief at the stupidity that one can witness. 
## What will you value in life 
One day when I was sitting in the middle of an open floor coworking space in downtown San Francisco I looked around the room and saw countless miserable people running around exhausted and with bags under their eyes, chasing money, dreaming about unicorns. A conversation I had earlier, in which I told a friend that I am not motivated by money, and his question that followed, has made me think. He asked me: "If you mainly care about AGI safety, why are you starting something completely unrelated?". I have stayed focused on the direction I care about, but after one and a half years, countless failures and lessons learned, I was sitting on the idea that had nothing to do with the initial motivation that led me to entrepreneurship in the first place. I ended up as one of the exsausted founders chasing unicorns instead of asking myself: *how am I going to measure my life when I'm on my deathbed?*. Clay Christensen, famous for *Innovator's Dilemma*, wrote a book called "How will you measure your life". He makes a strong point that our environment strongly shapes what we end up optimizing for, but we have an ability to steer ourselves towards the things that actually matter to us. Each one of us needs to answer this question for ourselves; for me, I found that living a virtuous life, and helping others do so too and striving to push humanity forward in answering some of the biggest questions, to be the most rewarding way to spend the remaining time I have. Take some time to contemplate this question and answer it for yourself, it is the most important question you will ever answer. *How are you gong to measure your life when you're on your deathbed?*

## Vipassana meditation retreat
- **Clarity is a *state*, not something you *get*.** This is the first thing that hit me over the head as I have been chasing clarity of thought most of the year, only to find more thoughts of chasing verious things. When I committed to spend 10 days in meditation without talking to anyone it became obviously clear to me within the first 2 days that a state of clarity is a bit like climbing a mountain and you seeing the nearby city's landscape: the underlying complexity of detail falls into place and forms a coherent whole. When you stop chasing and simply observe reality, things simply make sense and most questions can be answered without much thought. It also becomes clear what are the right questions to ask and what questions don't make much sense. 
- **Your pain today is your strength tomorrow; your indulgence today is your weakness tomorrow.** When you endure pain, you are voting with your volition on the change that you wish to see in your life; when you let go and let your desires and cravings take hold, you let the environment shape who you become. The idea that voluntary pain is strength and indulgence leads to weakness is something that I knew earlier, but only sitting cross-legged for hours on end with my knees screaming at me from pain while I maintain equanimity has made me understand this lesson deeply. 
- **Virtue is fundamental.** Something that I didn't expect to learn on the retreat was the importance of Virtue. Avoiding unwholesome actions is fundamental in life; without it we are going to dig ourselves in a deep hole of misery. Without having a pure and strong foundation, it is hard to build anything else in life, even if it is as simple asclarity of thought! 
- **Slow action is fast outcome.** The US Navy has a saying "Slow is smooth, and smooth is fast." Which I have learned to be true in more aspects of my life than initially suspected. If you take the time that is needed to perform each action, instead of looking for ways to optimize, you will not only do it faster, but you also learn how to do something well the hard way, which is instrumental and foundational for finding a faster way to do it. 
## Memento Mori 
- They say that death puts everything in perspective, but it is easy to *know* that we are going to die *within years* without internalizing it. Understanding comes when we are faced by a realization that we might die *within months or weeks* instead of years. Sometimes when I have a slight death scare I like to sit with the feeling and meditate on the idea of "what if this thing I am worried about actually happens, what would I actually do?". When you fully sit with this feeling you will know. I find gratitude in what life has shown me so far and in what I am seeing presently when I open my eyes. Everything that is somewhat stressful and upsetting seem myopic or simply petty. The beauty of existence and life is becomes clearly inherent. I found peace to be ever-present. I like to look up at the stars at night and ask myself what I'd like to do with the remaining time. Living this short animal life on this colorful planet. 

**Ending with gratitude.** There are many people without whom this year would not have been possible, whose support, wisdom and trust have allowed me to sprint head on toward my goals. I am immensely grateful to have such a supportive, understanding, and agentic network of people. Thank you everyone!   

